# LINUX FUNDAMENTALS 2

---

## File Ownership

There are 2 owners of a file or directory:

- **User** and **Group**

### Commands to change file ownership:

- `chown` and `chgrp`

  - `chown`: Change the ownership of a file (stands for **change owner**).
    - Syntax: `chown [new owner] [namefile]`
  
  - `chgrp`: Change the group ownership of a file.
    - The `chgrp` (change group) command in Linux is used to change the group ownership of a file or directory.
    - Every file or directory in Linux has an owner and a group, and `chgrp` allows you to adjust the group.

### Recursive ownership change option:

- `-R`: Recursive option for applying ownership changes to files within directories.

---

## ACCESS CONTROL LIST (ACL)

**Access Control List** allows for more flexible permissions. 

Imagine a scenario where a particular user is not a member of the group created by you, but you still want to grant them some read or write access. Here is where **Access Control List (ACL)** comes into play.

ACLs provide a flexible permission mechanism in Linux.

### Commands to assign and remove ACL permissions:

- `setfacl` and `getfacl`

### List of commands for setting up ACL:

1. **To add permission for a user**:
  
   setfacl -m u:user:rwx /path/to/file

To add permissions for a group:


setfacl -m g:group:rw /path/to/file
To allow all files or directories to inherit ACL entries from the directory it is within:


setfacl -dm "entry" /path/to/dir
To remove a specific entry (for a specific user):


setfacl -x u:user /path/to/file
To remove all entries (for all users):


setfacl -b /path/to/file