# LINUX FUNDAMENTALS 3

---

## TIPS FOR NEW SESSION ON KALI LINUX:

- If you want to open a new session, press **Ctrl + Alt + F2**.
- If you want to come back, press **Ctrl + Alt + F7**.

---

## HELP COMMANDS

There are 3 types of help commands:

- **whatis command**:
  - Example: `whatis clear`
  
- **command --help**:
  - Example: `clear --help`
  
- **man command**:
  - Example: `man clear`

---

## TAB COMPLETION AND UP ARROW

- Use **TAB** to complete commands quickly.
- Use the **Up Arrow** to recall previous commands.

---

## ADDING TEXT TO FILES

There are 3 simple ways to add text to a file:

- Using **vi**.
- Redirect command output with `>` or `>>`.
- Using `echo >` or `echo >>`.

### NOTE: Difference between `echo >` and `echo >>`

- `echo >`: Overwrites the file (Deletes the existing content).
- `echo >>`: Appends to the file (Does not delete the existing content).

---

## INPUT AND OUTPUT REDIRECTS

There are 3 types of redirects in Linux:

1. **Standard Input (stdin)**:
   - File Descriptor Number: **0**.
   
2. **Standard Output (stdout)**:
   - File Descriptor Number: **1**.
   
3. **Standard Error (stderr)**:
   - File Descriptor Number: **2**.

In Linux, when working with commands and programs, handling input and output is crucial.

### Explanation of Input and Output Redirects:

1. **Standard Input (stdin)**:
   - **Description**: This is the default source of input for a program. When you type a command or provide data to a program, it is from stdin.
   - **File Descriptor**: 0.
   - **Usage**: You can redirect input from a file or another command using the `<` symbol. For example:
     ```bash
     command < inputfile
     ```
